[Music]
think about it dogs have been with us
for around 30,000 years actually my dog
Riley has been around for only nine
years but however long ever since the
moment they settled down with people we
just can't imagine life without dogs but
the big important question remains just
how close are humans and dogs to each
other and what are the key factors in
this long and happy relationship
number one survival of the friendliest
it's unbelievable that fierce wild
wolves could become humans best friends
over time
yeah that sounds a weird the well-known
phrase is actually man's best friend but
hey I don't want to not be PC here right
anyway that thing about wolves isn't
even the most surprising thing about
dogs evolution today some scientists
think it wasn't people who domesticated
wolves but the other way around
us scientists from Duke University dr.
Brian hare and Vanessa woods think it
was wolves who learn how to be
friendlier to people if we look at this
fact with the rule of thumb of evolution
survival of the fittest it doesn't make
any sense but think about it the other
way around
humankind didn't survive solely because
of our strengths but also because we
could agree with each other and the
world around us domestication itself is
part of this process one could say that
the ability to be friendly and caring is
one of our natural strengths and don't
we all need to use more of that these
days well the same thing applied to
wolves at some point throughout all
history wolves were our enemies and
humans were their worthy opponents so
were they actually that wolves learn
that messing with people too much was
detrimental to their survival this is
how friendlier wolves came to be in the
first place fortunately people could
appreciate their calm behavior enough to
leave them be at first but later it
seems they also found those friendly
wolves to be
and cute of course this was a really
long process but the result was the
first dogs that were born to live
alongside people and the rest is history
what a great story I really want to
believe in it because that would mean
we're a lot closer to our fluffy friends
than we ever thought number two
dogs have individual IQ levels for
centuries we thought we were the only
species in the world that has
intelligence
well those beliefs are better left in
the past we already know that dolphins
are so smart they refer to each other by
name we know how good chimps parents
crows and octopuses are at
problem-solving but if we decide to look
closer at our everyday life there's
another great example of animal
brilliance dogs obviously yes every dog
owner will tell you that their dog is
the smartest in the world but now we can
actually measure their intelligence just
like we measure ours newly developed in
the London School of Economics IQ tests
for dogs show that intelligence levels
not only differ between the breeds but
that they're absolutely individual for
each and every dog there is the test
takes about an hour just like a human IQ
test and consists of three parts the
first part shows how quickly a dog can
find its way to a food source or a treat
that's of course well hidden the second
part measures a dog skill in determining
what food source is better for it in
terms of quality and its skill and
decision making overall the third part
is the toughest it tests a dog's
capacity to understand human gestures
specifically pointing at an object where
food is hidden Wow
that means now I can compete with my dog
in an IQ contest it'd be hilarious if
Riley beats me number three smarter dogs
live longer
dogs overall helped to form our
civilization their influence is immense
and it seems like they're not done
helping us the same study that provided
us with the tools to measure dog's IQ
may
be onto something even greater the thing
is the intelligence of a dog is very
similar to the intelligence of a human
being
statistical research shows that people
with higher IQs are more likely to be
healthy and live longer as it turns out
it's the same for dogs the problem with
people is that they're much more
difficult subjects for further research
on this correlation dogs are much better
because they have no bad habits and
their ration is much easier to normalize
the other thing is that dogs just like
humans can develop symptoms of dementia
as they get older if we can one day
produce a treatment for this condition
we would likely be obliged to thank dogs
for it number four dogs are more like us
than our closest relative in fact dogs
are the only species that shows
intellectual skills shockingly similar
to those of human babies if you show a
picture of an object to a chimp it won't
understand what you mean by that dogs
can understand the shown image and bring
an object that resembles it in another
experiment several objects were named
for a dog the dog not only knew the
objects by name but also tried to name
new unfamiliar objects with other
specific sounds chimps can't do that at
all and they are the closest to us in
the evolutionary tree more than that the
skills that dogs demonstrate now we're
considered unique to humans and observed
only in the behavior of little babies
before it doesn't just show how smart
dogs are the truth behind their
abilities is much more charming dogs
have just been around us for so long
that they've become tuned into us they
want to be close to us that's why their
minds have become so similar to ours
number five dogs lose sleep in stressful
situations how many times have you told
yourself don't let it get to your head
don't you dare when you're already
laying in your bed trying to get some
sleep and then nothing helps unpaid
taxes clocks on the wall ticking too
loud people around you looking at you
funny
or are you just imagining things ah so
much stress well at least you're not
alone around 30 percent of people suffer
from insomnia at any given time but
unfortunately the circle of this
disaster doesn't end here
dogs are highly susceptible to it too
according to a collective study from the
Hungarian Academy of Science in Budapest
a dog's experiences accumulated
throughout the day have a direct impact
on the quality of sleep they get at
night if something goes wrong poor puppy
the night will be long and fruitless if
everything is all right it will dream
sweet dreams of running through soft
green grass chasing plump rabbits or
whatever
heck when Reilly sleeps sometimes all
four feet are moving and he actually
barks in his sleep - anyway here's an
idea for everyone let's be kinder to
puppies of all ages and let them sleep
tight number six dogs and humans have
similar micro biomes first of all what
in the heck are micro biomes well I
don't know how you'll react to this but
there's a whole jungle inside you that
literally of course but our insides are
the greatest place for all kinds of
organisms to live now don't rush out for
an antibacterial soap just yet and
listen most of the time being a host of
all kinds of microscopic life is
actually good for you for example you
won't be able to digest milk properly
without them and they can even do some
good for your emotional balance in fact
there are so many microbes in us they
outnumber our own cells we're literally
overflowing with life all the genetic
information from those microbes
presented in the form of DNA is called
the microbiome European molecular
biology laboratory and Nestle research
presented studies that show how changes
in the diets of humans and dogs have
similar effect on their microbiomes
the similarities are far stronger than
we could have expected
much stronger than those with pigs and
mice which were considered prime
candidates for dietary research before
it turns out if we develop a better diet
for dogs we would know what foods are
healthy for us - who knew thousands of
years of living together could result in
something like that all of this is about
science and pure data but personal
experience is what bonds us with dogs so
much so share your own tell us what
similarities you have with dogs in your
everyday life down in the comment
section and don't forget to leave this
video a like share with your friends and
your dogs and click subscribe to always
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]